---
layout: post
title: "How To Care For Your Belongings"
date: 2014-12-05 19:57:25
category: humans
---
You don't need a magazine or a book or even a blog post to teach you
how to keep your things clean and in order. Just ask the guy who spent
his life savings on the Corvette he always wanted how he manages to
keep it so clean. His answer is simple: washing that car is part of
the fun.

It's part of our mammalian heritage to care for things. When we love
something, by default we take care of it. Psychologists and creepy
pick-up artists know that this works the other way, too: doing a favor
for someone - taking care of them - can actually *cause* us to feel
love where there wasn't love before. In other words, caring is a
feeling and an action. And when you care about something, it's easy to
take care of it.

So it's very simple to keep all your things clean and in order. Just
get rid of anything that you don't enjoy cleaning and putting in
order. This sounds drastic, and it is. But the reason it's drastic is
because you have so much stuff that you don't care about. If you did
care about it, caring for it would come as naturally as caring for a
baby (or a Corvette).

If you don't enjoy caring for something, you don't care about it. And
taking care of something you don't care about is a huge waste of
energy. If you don't like cleaning it, get rid of it. It really is
that simple. You might not be able to throw away people that are hard
to take care of, but it's easy to get rid of a thing. Donate it,
Craigslist it, recycle it, throw it away.

Instead of trying to find a way to take care of all your stuff, take
the time to discover which stuff you emotionally care about. Get rid
of the rest. Then taking care of your belongings will be an easy
pleasure.

Only have the stuff you enjoy cleaning. You might think that's
impossible - who enjoys cleaning? If you did, you wouldn't be reading
this. You'd be cleaning. But it's not impossible to enjoy cleaning
things and tidying things. It's not an inherent character trait that
some have and others lack. It's in our mammalian heritage. We exist
because we take care of our young. The trick is to find things you
enjoy cleaning. There may only be a few things. But start from
there. Only acquire things you want to clean. It's that simple.
